    O: I have a son.
    E: ἐχω υιον.

    O: The person calls a slave.
    E: ὁ ἀνθρωπος καλει δουλον.

== Practice 2.4 & 2.5 ==
    O: The sons have a house.
    E: οἱ υἱοι ἐχουσιν οἰκον.
    
    O: You call the brother.
    E: καλειτε τον ἀδελφον.
    
    O: God is making the heavens.
    E: ὁ θεος ποιει τους οὐρανους.
    
    O: An angel is leading crowds.
    E: ἀγει ἀγγελος ὀχλους.
    
    O: The lord is listening.
    E: ὁ κυριος ἀκουει.
    
    O: We are seeking the Messiah.
    E: ζητουμεν τον Χριστον.
    
    O: The sons are speaking words.
    E: οἱ υἱοι λαλουσιν (or λεγουσιν) λογους.

    O: The people love God.
    E: ὁ λαος φιλει τον θεον (or οἱ ἀνθρωποι φιλουσιν τον θεον).

== Exercises 2A ==
    O: ἐχω υἱον.
    E: I have a son.
    
    O: ὁ ἀνθρωπος καλει δουλον.
    E: The person calls a slave.
    
    O: τον νομον φιλεις.
    E: You love the law.
    
    O: ἀμην ἀμην λεγω...
    E: Amen amen, I say...
    
    O: διδασκει ὁ Χριστος τον ὀχλον.
    E: The Messiah is teaching the crowd.
    
    O: ὁ θεος ποιει τον κοσμον και τον οὐρανον.
    E: God makes the world and the heaven.
    
    O: ὁ Ἰωσηφ λαμβανει τους ἀδελφους.
    E: Joseph receives the brothers.
    
    O: ἀκουομεν και φιλουμεν τον λογον.
    E: We hear and love the word.
        
    O: ὁ Χριστος λεγει τους λογους.
    E: Christ says the words.
        
    O: ὁ ὀχλος ἀκουει τον νομον.
    E: The crowd listens to the law.
        
    O: λυεις τους δουλους.
    E: You are setting free the slaves.
        
    O: (οἱ) ἀνθρωποι ποιουσιν (τον) ἀρτον.
    E: People are making bread.

== Exercise 2B ==
    O: οἱ υἱοι λαλουσιν.
    E: The sons are speaking.
        
    O: οἱ ἀγγελοι βλεπουσι τον υεον.
    E: The angels are seeing God.
        
    O: ὁ ὀχλος τον θεον ζητει.
    E: The crowd is seeking God.
        
    O: βαλλετε τον ἀρτον.
    E: You are throwing the bread.
        
    O: ὁ Ἰακωβ ἀγει τον ἀδελφον.
    E: Jacob leads the brother.
        
    O: τον νομον τηρει ὁ λαος Ἱσραηλ.
    E: The people of Israel keeps the law.
        
    O: τον Δαυιδ ὁ κυριος ζητει.
    E: The lord is seeking David.
        
    O: ὁ κυριος Χριστος τους ἀνθρωπους λυει.
    E: The Lord Christ is setting free the people.
        
    O: ὁ θεος ἐχει αγγελους.
    E: God has angels.
        
    O: διδασκω τους υἱους.
    E: I teach the sons.
        
    O: ζητουμεν τον κυριον.
    E: We are seeking the lord.
        
    O: καλειτε τον ἀδελφον.
    E: You are calling the brother.
        
== Exercise 3A ==
    O: ἡ ἀδελφη λεγει τῳν Ἰησου Κυριε, πιστευω.
    E: The sister is saying to Jesus: 'Lord, I believe.'
        
    O: ποιω τα ἐργα του θεου.
    E: I am doing the works of God.
            
    O: ὁ θεος φιλει τον υἱον και λαλει αὐτου.
    E: God loves the son and speaks to him.
        
    O: λαμβανομεν και τηρουμεν τα βιβλια αὐτον.
    E: We are receiving and keeping his books.

    O: ὁ ὀχλος λεγει τῳ Ἰησου· Δαιμονιον ἐχεις.
    E: The crowd is saying to Jesus,'You have a demon.'
    
    O: Πετρε, διδασκεις την βασιλειαν του θεου.
    E: Peter, you are teaching the kingdom of God.
    
    O: αἱ ἀδελφαι και οἱ ἀδλφοι τηρουσε τους νομους και το σαββατον.
    E: The sisters and brothers are keeping the laws and the Sabbath.
    
    O: το σαββατον τηρει ὁ υἱος του ἀνθρωπου;
    E: Does the son of man keep the Sabbath?
    
    O: ἡ ἐκκλησια αὐτων ζητει την δοξαν του θεου.
    E: Their church is seeking the glory of God.
    
    O: ὁ Παυλος διδασκει την οἰκιαν του κυριου.
    E: Paul teaches the household of the Lord.
        
    O: ἀδελφοι και ἀδελφαι, λαμβανετε την ἀγαπην του θεου.
    E: Brothers and sisters, you are receiving the love of God.
            
    O: τα τεκνα βαλλει γην.
    E: The children are throwing soil.

== Exercise 4A ==
     
    O: δοξαν παρα ἀνθρωπων οὐ λαμβανω.
    E: I am not receiving glory from people.

    O: πιστευεις εἰς τον υἱον του ἀνθρωπου;
    E: Do you believe in the son of man?

    O: ὁ κυριος λεγει αὐτοις* Που αὐτους ἀγετε;
    E: The Lord is saying to them,'Where are you leading them?'

    O: ὁ Πετρος διδασκει αὐτους περι της βασιλειας παρα τοις πλοιοις.
    E: Peter is teaching them about the kingdom beside the boats.

    O: ἀναβλεπομεν εἰς τον οὐρανον ἐνωπιον του ἱερου.
    E: We are looking up into heaven in front of the temple.

    O: ὁ Ἰησους ἐκβαλλει τα δαιμονια ἐκ του ἀνθρωπου λογῳ.
    E: Jesus is casting demons out of the person with a word.

    O: περιπατω ὑπο ἁμαρτιαν και κατα του νομου του θεου.
    E: I am living under sin and against God's law.

    O: ὁ Πετρος συναγει την ἐκκλησιαν εἰς τον οἰκον της ἀδελφης του Ἰακωβ.
    E: Peter is gathering the church into the house of Jabcob's sister.

    O: ὑπαγομεν προς την θαλασσαν.
    E: We are departing towards the sea.

    O: παρακαλειτε τους ἀδελφους ἐν κυριῳ.
    E: You are exhorting the brothers in the Lord.

    O: τηρεις το σαββατον δια τον νομον;
    E: Do you keep the Sabbath because of the law?

    O: οἱ ἀνθρωποι ἐν τῳ πλοιῳ προσκυνουσιν τῳ κυριῳ.
    E: The people in the boat are worshipping the Lord.
